# Reflection

## Project Overview

This project was built by Tyler Kero and Haoyang Zhang. The entire software was built so that users could find the nearest MBTA station by typing in the location into the box in the browser. First, by completeing the the MBTA_Helper.py, we managed to get the backend of the project working. We started by creating a customizable url by location using the MapQuest API. From here, we decoded the data from JSON and we created a function that gets the latitude and longitude from a location name. Next, we created a seperate function that utilizes the MBTA-realtime API. We created another customizable url using latitude, longitude, and a personal API key and decoded the data from JSON format. The program then finds the name and the status of wheelchair accessibility of the closest MBTA stop the the provided latitude and longitude. Finally, the last function combines all other functions, allowing a user to input a location name rather than the latitude and longitudem and in return recieve the nearest MBTA stop and wheelchair accessiblity status. After creating the program, we created a local website using flask to display the program. We created an index page that allows the user to type a location into a text box, which is next to a submit button. The button takes the user to a different page dispalying the closest MBTA stop and wheelchair accessibility status. If an error occurs, such as there is no MBTA stop within 5 miles from the provided location, the website sends the user to a error page that has a button that takes them back to the index page to try again.

## Project Reflection
The creation of the backend of the project went very well. The only difficulty that we ran into was trouble with the MBTA API. We had trouble creating a proper url that sorted the MBTA stops by closest distance. Throughout the use of the API's and the creation of the functions, we tested frequently and properly. Using the pprint library made it very easy to see the data visually, allowing us to see patterns from out errors and correct them accordingly. Thanks to the scaffolding of the mbta_helper, the project was scoped properly. We deviated some from the way it was set-up, but we followed the structure for the most part. Because this structure was created prior, we were able to keep the final goal in mind from the start to the end. The backend part of this project flowed smoothly and was very interesting. We learned much more about APIs and url creation and how to work with multiple APIs at once. On the other hand, the flask portion of the assignment went much slower. It was very difficult to figure out the sytax for flask and how it paired with HTML and Python. We spent a lot of time reading the Flask Quickstart documentation, watching youtube videos, and reading example articles. The most difficult parts of the flask side was using the Post request to obtain data and send it back after putting it through our functions we created before and handling error exceptions. We were very happy once we found out how to get this part of the application to work! Although we are proud of our work, we know that there is much to improve on the style of the web application and most likely in finding the most efficient way to create the code. We have learned so much more than we expected in the flask library and we are planning to use this knowledge to the fullest when doing our Final Project (but hopefully we can figure out some better styling options by then). We wish we knew a little more about the flask get and post requests since that would have made understanding how the data was being transferered much easier. Overall we had a great time making this project and have learned a ton from both sides of the assignment. 

Working while trying to update the github was relatively difficult as we found that when one person was working on something, it was extremely hard for the other person to help. We found that, at least one time, one person had written the same code that the other person had written for that function so some time was wasted. The team dynamic was relatively good with no major issues, but working out which program was being worked on by who was by far one of the hardest problems. We spent most of the time working together on creating the code from once computer after we noticed that we were having this issue. Additionally, we had some trouble pulling from the github repository. It was good that we had this experience so that we know what to do for the final project. In order to improve our process, we plan to sit down and plan the project out from the start, dividing up functions and responsibilities. This will make our teaming process move much more smoothly allowing us to work much more efficiently and seperately.

This project was done by Tyler Kero and Haoyang Zhang